# MyApp

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 13.3.6.

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via a platform of your choice. To use this command, you need to first add a package that implements end-to-end testing capabilities.

## Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.io/cli) page.



===================== tutorial =====================

## Create a new workspace and an initial application

You develop applications in the context of an Angular workspace. A workspace contains the files for one or more projects. A project is the set of files that comprise an application or a library. For this tutorial, you will create a new workspace.

1. To create a new workspace and an initial application project:

2. Ensure that you are not already in an Angular workspace folder. For example, if you have previously created the Getting Started workspace, change to the parent of that folder.

Run the CLI command ng new and provide the name angular-tour-of-heroes, as shown here:

~~~
ng new angular-tour-of-heroes
~~~

3. The ng new command prompts you for information about features to include in the initial application project. Accept the defaults by pressing the Enter or Return key.

The Angular CLI installs the necessary Angular npm packages and other dependencies. This can take a few minutes.

It also creates the following workspace and starter project files:

- A new workspace, with a root folder named angular-tour-of-heroes
- An initial skeleton app project in the src/app subfolder
- Related configuration files

The initial app project contains a simple Welcome application, ready to run.

## Run the application

The Angular CLI includes a server, for you to build and serve your app locally.

1. Navigate to the workspace folder, such as my-app.

2. Run the following command:
   
~~~
cd angular-tour-of-heroes
ng serve --open
~~~

> The ng serve command builds the app, starts the development server, watches the source files, and rebuilds the application as you make changes to those files.
>
>The --open flag opens a browser to http://localhost:4200.

You should see the application running in your browser.


<br>

## `Angular Components`

- The page you see is the `application shell`. The shell is controlled by an Angular `component` named `AppComponent`.
- `Components`are the fundamental building blocks of Angular applications. 
- They display data on the screen, listen for user input, and take action based on that input.

<br>

## Make changes to the application
****
Open the project in your favorite editor or IDE and navigate to the src/app folder to make some changes to the starter application.

You'll find the implementation of the shell AppComponent distributed over three files:

1) `app.component.ts` : The component class code, written in TypeScript.
2) `app.component.html`: The component template, written in HTML.
3) `app.component.css`: The component's private CSS styles.

<br>

### `Change the application title`

<br>

- Open the component class file (app.component.ts) and change the value of the `title` property to 'Tour of Heroes'.

~~~
title = 'Tour of Heroes';
~~~

- Open the component template file (app.component.html) and delete the default template generated by the Angular CLI.
- Replace it with the following line of HTML.

~~~
<h1>{{title}}</h1>
~~~

- The double curly braces are Angular's `interpolation binding syntax`. This interpolation binding presents the component's `title` property value inside the HTML header tag.
- The browser refreshes and displays the new application title.


### `Add application styles`

<br>

Most apps strive for a consistent look across the application. The CLI generated an empty styles.css for this purpose. Put your application-wide styles there.

Open src/styles.css and add the code below to the file.

~~~
/* Application-wide Styles */
h1 {
  color: #369;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-size: 250%;
}
h2, h3 {
  color: #444;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-weight: lighter;
}
body {
  margin: 2em;
}
body, input[type="text"], button {
  color: #333;
  font-family: Cambria, Georgia, serif;
}
button {
  background-color: #eee;
  border: none;
  border-radius: 4px;
  cursor: pointer;
  color: black;
  font-size: 1.2rem;
  padding: 1rem;
  margin-right: 1rem;
  margin-bottom: 1rem;
  margin-top: 1rem;
}
button:hover {
  background-color: black;
  color: white;
}
button:disabled {
  background-color: #eee;
  color: #aaa;
  cursor: auto;
}

/* everywhere else */
* {
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
~~~

<br>

### Summary

- You created the initial application structure using the Angular CLI
- You learned that Angular components display data
- You used the double curly braces of interpolation to display the application title


<br>

## The hero editor

<br>

The application now has a basic title. Next you will create a new component to display hero information and place that component in the application shell.

<br>

### `Create the heroes component`
<br>

- Using the Angular CLI, generate a new component named heroes.

~~~
ng generate component heroes
~~~

The CLI creates a new folder, src/app/heroes/, and generates the three files of the HeroesComponent along with a test file.

The HeroesComponent class file is as follows:

~~~
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-heroes',
  templateUrl: './heroes.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./heroes.component.css']
})
export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {

  constructor() { }

  ngOnInit(): void {
  }

}
~~~

You always import the Component symbol from the Angular core library and annotate the component class with @Component.

@Component is a decorator function that specifies the Angular metadata for the component.

The CLI generated three metadata properties:
- `selector`: The component's CSS element selector.
- `templateUrl`: The location of the component's template file.
- `styleUrls`: The location of the component's private CSS styles.


The CSS element selector, 'app-heroes', matches the name of the HTML element that identifies this component within a parent component's template.

The ngOnInit() is a lifecycle hook. Angular calls ngOnInit() shortly after creating a component. It's a good place to put initialization logic.

Always export the component class so you can import it elsewhere … like in the AppModule.


#### `Add a hero property`

<br>

Add a hero property to the HeroesComponent for a hero named "Windstorm".

~~~
hero = 'Windstorm';
~~~

<br>

#### `Show the hero`

<br>

Open the heroes.component.html template file. Delete the default text generated by the Angular CLI and replace it with a data binding to the new hero property.

~~~
<h2>{{hero}}</h2>
~~~

<br>

### `Show the HeroesComponent view`

<br>

To display the HeroesComponent, you must add it to the template of the shell AppComponent.

Remember that app-heroes is the element selector for the HeroesComponent. So add an <app-heroes> element to the AppComponent template file, just below the title.

~~~
<h1>{{title}}</h1>
<app-heroes></app-heroes>
~~~

Assuming that the CLI ng serve command is still running, the browser should refresh and display both the application title and the hero name.

<br>

### `Create a Hero interface`

<br>

A real hero is more than a name.

- Create a Hero interface in its own file in the src/app folder. Give it id and name properties.

~~~
[app/components/hero.ts]
export interface Hero {
  id: number;
  name: string;
}
~~~

- Refactor the component's hero property to be of type Hero. Initialize it with an id of 1 and the name Windstorm.

The revised HeroesComponent class file should look like this:

~~~
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { Hero } from '../hero';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-heroes',
  templateUrl: './heroes.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./heroes.component.css']
})
export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {
  hero: Hero = {
    id: 1,
    name: 'Windstorm'
  };

  constructor() { }

  ngOnInit(): void {
  }

}
~~~

> The page no longer displays properly because you changed the hero from a string to an object.


<br>

### `Show the hero object`

<br>

Update the binding in the template to announce the hero's name and show both id and name in a details layout like this:

~~~
<h2>{{hero.name}} Details</h2>
<div><span>id: </span>{{hero.id}}</div>
<div><span>name: </span>{{hero.name}}</div>
~~~

The browser refreshes and displays the hero's information.

<br>

### `Format with the UppercasePipe`

<br>

Modify the `hero.name` binding like this:

~~~
<h2>{{hero.name | uppercase}} Details</h2>
~~~

<br>

- The browser refreshes and now the hero's name is displayed in capital letters.
- The word `uppercase` in the interpolation binding, right after the pipe (`|`) character, activates the built-in `UppercasePipe`.
- [Pipes](https://angular.io/guide/pipes) are a good way to format strings, currency amounts, dates and other display data.
- Angular ships with several built-in pipes and you can create your own.


<br>

### Edit the hero

- Users should be able to edit the hero name in an `<input>` textbox.
- The textbox should both `display` the hero's `name` property and `update` that property as the user types.
- That means data flows from the component class `out to the screen` and from the screen `back to the class`.
- To automate that data flow, setup a two-way data binding between the `<input>` form element and the `hero.name` property.

<br>

#### `two-way binding`

<br>

- Refactor the details area in the `HeroesComponent` template so it looks like this:

~~~ 
<div>
  <label for="name">Hero name: </label>
  <input id="name" [(ngModel)]="hero.name" placeholder="name">
</div>
~~~

<br>

- `[(ngModule)]` : Is Angular's two-way data binding syntax.
- Here it binds the `hero.name` property to the HTML textbox so that data can flow in `both directions`: from the `hero.name` property to the textbox and from the textbox to the `hero.name`

<br>

#### `The missing FormsModule`

<br>

- Notice that the application stopped working when you added `[(ngModel)]`.
- To see the error, open the browser development tools and look in the console for a message like:

~~~
Template parse errors:
Can't bind to 'ngModel' since it isn't a known property of 'input'.
~~~

<br>

- Although `ngModel` is a valid Angular directive, it isn't available by default.
- It belongs to the optional `FormsModule` and you must opt-in to using it.


<br>

### AppModule

<br>

- Angular needs to know how the pieces of your application fit together and what other files and libraries the application requires. This information is called `metadata`.
- Some of the metadata is in the `@Component` decorators that you added to your component classes. 
- Other critical metadata is in `@NgModule` decorators.
- The mos important `@NgModule` decorator annotates the top-level `AppModule` class.
- The Angular CLI generated an `AppModule` class in `src/app/app.module.ts` when it created the project.
- There is where you opt-in to the `FormsModule`

<br>

#### `Import FormsModule`

<br>

- Open `AppModule` (app.module.ts) and import the `FormsModule` symbol from the `@angular/forms` library.

~~~
import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms'; <-- NgModel lives here
~~~

<br>

- Then add `FormsModule` to the `@NgModule` metadata's `imports` arrya, which contains a list of external modules that the application needs.

~~~
[app.module.ts (#NgModule imports)]
imports: [
  BrowserModule,
  FormsModule
],
~~~

<br>

- When the browser refreshes, the application should work again. You can edit the hero's name and see the changes reflected immediately in the `<h2>` above the textbox.

<br>

### Declare HeroesComponent

<br>

- Every component must be declared in `exactly one` [NgModule](https://angular.io/guide/ngmodules).
- You didn't declare the `HeroesComponent`. So why did the application work?
- It worked because the Angular CLI declared `HeroesComponent` in the `AppModule` when it generated that component.
- Open `srx/app/app.module.ts` and find `HeroesComponent` imported near the top.

~~~
import { HeroesComponent } from './heroes/heroes.component';
~~~

<br>

- The `HeroesComponent` is declared in the `@NgModule.declarations` array.

~~~
[src/app/app.module.ts]
declarations: [
  AppComponent,
  HeroesComponent,
],
~~~

<br>

> `AppModule` declares both application components, `AppComponent` and `HeroesComponent`.


### `Summary`
- You used the CLI to create a second `HeroesComponent`
- You displayed the `HeroesComponent` by adding it to the `AppComponent` shell
- You applied the `UppercasePipe` to format the name.
- You used two-way data binding with the `ngModel` directive
- You leraned about the `AppModule`
- You imported the `FormsModule` in the `AppModule` so that Angular would recognize and apply the `ngModel` directive.
- You learned the importance of declaring components in the `AppModule` and appreciated that the CLI declared it for you.













